# Overview
Check out and test the [web app](https://script.google.com/a/macros/aquifer.org/s/AKfycbx8QkFw7qW5n_cZ4VVkL0bXIU2-QhFtPKdEjcSQGsRhuG1vysEV4IDod6SfDKEf7XKQjw/exec) with some [medical education program objectives](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-iztjfA6-8A_ZKqvEpSzWRqJZsgQt47D/view?usp=sharing) - follow the directions on the site to generate a report and see it for yourself.

This project was designed to automatically check institutional education standards for alignment with national standards.  To do this, this web app processes a file upload (pdf or Google Doc) containing a user's institutional standards.  It pushes the file text to be parsed by OpenAI's GPT-4o based on few-shot prompting methods to return a list of the learning objectives.  The learning objectives are added to a database (Google Sheets) and are passed to OpenAI's small embeddings model to create vectors for each objective.  Measuring the cosine similarity of 2 vectors has become an industry standard for assessing the semantic similarity between 2 text strings, so this application uses that method to determine where matches exist between the institutional objectives and the proposed national objectives (0.50 or greater).  It then analyzes the quality of those matches (excellent = 0.70+, weak = 0.58 or less) and creates helpful visuals for the user to understand strengths and weaknesses of their current program objectives when compared to the proposed national standards. A collection of server-side functions configure the data to help the client render charts and tables for the user to see on the webpage, and the user is able to download this output as a pdf.

### Situation
This organization sought to increase AI utilization within medical education, and their annual conference, Wellspring, was a key opportunity to demonstrate to medical faculty how AI can save time and generate insights that help them in their work. The Chief Curriculum Officer wanted to position the organization as a leader in AI while also gathering data that would enable further research and discussions about how the organization should evolve to help medical educators achieve these new standards. 

### Task
I was directed to build an accessible AI tool that would achieve these desires in the context of educational standards: How do an institution's current program objectives align with newly-proposed national standards?  The design and scope of this tool was left entirely in my hands.

### Action
I created a prototype that would work for most inputs, then met with two institutional stakeholders and the CCO to review its current state. At that time, I revised the visuals, added new analysis for the data based on their feedback, cleaned up the page layout, and deployed the web app for users prior to the workshop.

As users began to work with the app, I added instructions, an explanation of how it worked, and video directions for users to simplify the process.  Shortly after, the website temporarily threw errors due to the small Google Sheets database overfilling, and I deployed a same-day fix to the database to drastically reduce the number of cells used to stay under Google's maximum cell count (10 million) and ensure the app would function properly for all future users.

### Result
The web app generated a lot of buzz among educators who were excited to see how AI technology could take thought work off their plates.  The conference workshop sessions were well-attended and produced a lot of fruitful discussion, in addition to the data that the organization gained from the database.  After the conference, a few institutional stakeholders requested to use the data for future publishing in medical education.
